---
title: "From Bootcamp to Software Engineer: 4 tips from 4 years"
date: "2020-05-25"
---

Unlike many Engineering students, I found that the best way to my career goal was outside of the University.

Back in 2015, I was going through a lot academically. In short, school was expensive to pay for and my financial aid was flaky at best. I'd lose a scholarship mid-semester because the University found out they didn't have the funds leaving me with a bill. I didn't have the financial support I needed to be a full-time student. Because I interned at a coding bootcamp, I knew that it was possible to take a non-traditional route into Software Engineering and Development.


1: Pursue your dreams with a plan in mind. Take advice with a grain of salt.

In late 2015 after taking a web development course and trying some freelance projects, I decided to trade my University courses for a full-time bootcamp in hopes of solidifying the knowledge I needed to become a programmer full-time. I felt I had a great chance to at least land an internship and convert to full-time work.


Ultimately I...


Professionally I dove into teaching as a Teaching Assistant for the Java Apprenticeship program. I then accepted a role as the JavaScript and Java Apprenticeship instructor. I transitioned into the Program Management overseeing the Java Apprenticeship while I taught the Part-Time JavaScript Bootcamp.

I realized that I didn't want to be an expert at being a Junior so I became a Software Engineer for a consulting company where I learned Ruby on Rails. Eventually, I was let go from this job for what I believe was mostly a lack of clearly defined expectations. While I got positive feedback from my manager the entire time that I worked there, I was let go because I "didn't advance as much" as the leadership expected (loosely quoting).


2: Establish expectations between yourself and your company

I parted on good terms, but this showed me a lot about what I expected out of a company. Don't assume that your needs will be met or vice versa. Determine what successful performance looks like for you, but don't be afraid to have expectations in return.

What kind of support are you looking for in your role? What goals would you like to achieve that your manager or others can help you with?

I learned that transparency was really important to me and that I wanted to have more abundant mentorship available to me. I also ask for clear guidance on what performance criteria I will be evaluated on from year to year.

3: Challenge yourself by taking on projects

(re:purpose and freelancing)


4: Leadership opportunities are key to developing your reputation
Use your network to find awesome opportunities

As a 
